>> LILOU: Hello, my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here on the road in
beautiful sunny Miami Beach,
South Beach on Ocean Drive.
How does it get any
better than that, Frank?
>> FRANK KINSLOW: Love it here.
Just absolutely love it.
>> LILOU: It's so
beautiful to me.
I just flew in, you know,
to do these interviews,
with you included,
here in Florida.
And I was very cold
in Europe, so I'm just
thrilled to be
sitting here outside
and have another delicious
conversation, a conversation
that inspires us, that moves us.
You have quite a story.
You used to be a
former chiropractor.
And I want to go back, actually,
all the way into your 20s
and what really went on.
I know you've been
meditating for quite a while.
>> KINSLOW: Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, actually, let's go
back further than that,
since you started it.
[LAUGHS]
>> LILOU: OK.
>> KINSLOW: When I was 8,
9, and 10, I lived in Japan,
and I took Judo.
And there it's really
more like a way of life.
It's a sport, but
it's a way of life.
And we went every day.
And I worked myself up
to the best in the class,
but I was American and
bigger and stronger
than the kids my age.
Well, one day I showed up,
and there was a little guy.
And I'd never seen him before.
And sensei says, randori.
You do a little practice there.
And I remember, in my mind,
I'm going to take this guy,
and I'm just going
to do tomoe nage.
It's an intricate move, throw
him through the paper window
out into the courtyard.
This is a macho kind of a thing.
And really, all I remember
from about the 10 minutes
that we practiced together
was seeing the ceiling,
as he kept throwing
me and throwing.
Every time I'd get up, boom.
And I was humiliated.
I was frustrated.
I was angry.
I was embarrassed.
And I went home that night.
I didn't want to go back.
I told my father I
didn't want Judo anymore.
And he said, you go back.
And so I went there.
And that kid wasn't
there anymore.
I found out that he
was six years old.
And I don't know
where he came from,
but I have a feeling he came
in to sort of neutralize
these over-inflated egos
that happened to be around.
And that day when I was
sitting there when I came back,
I was just very
embarrassed and a lot
of the emotions mix going on.
And as I sat there, sensei
taught us the belly water
system.
It's a mind over
matter technique.
And as soon as I started
doing that technique,
all of those negative
emotions just washed away.
And then I became stronger.
I became more in harmony.
And that, right away, that
was a pivot point for me.
Because when we're 8, 9, and 10,
we're learning how to control.
We're learning how
to become adults,
moving away from childhood
where we're spontaneous
and we just love being
timeless and in the moment.
We learn how to
structure our lives.
And this was a destructuring.
And that was a guiding
point in my life, actually
all through my teens, my young
adulthood for at least 40 years
with the various
practices that I taught.
I spent many years studying
esoteric techniques.
Actually, I accumulated
up to almost three years
of silent meditation, meditating
for months on end all day,
every day.
And my activity,
meditation techniques,
lasted for 2 and 1/2 hours
every day, very dedicated.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> KINSLOW: I'm
going to get there.
I'm going to be enlightened.
I'm going to be at peace,
come hell or high water.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
But that's usually doesn't
work when we're meditating--
does it?-- and we want
absolutely to do something.
Or even in life in
general, a lot of teachers
speak of this letting go, of
being in the present moment.
What is your view on that?
>> KINSLOW: Well,
that's exactly right.
After all of this-- and
I had great experiences.
And I began teaching, and my
students had great experiences.
But at one point in my
life, I said, you know,
something here is not right.
There's something missing.
I've done 40 years
of meditation,
I've dedicated myself to this,
and I'm still not at peace.
And so I started throwing out
in my life what didn't work.
>> LILOU: Such as?
>> KINSLOW: Oh,
well, my practice.
I was a chiropractor
at that time.
I also had a degree
in teaching the deaf.
I just threw that out.
I threw out all my relationships
that weren't working, basically
all of them.
They were based on
the wrong things.
I moved from
Michigan to Florida.
>> LILOU: What a
great state, Michigan.
>> KINSLOW: It is a
fantastic state, yeah.
You got to be hardy, though.
The weather didn't
agree with me.
I love it here.
And make a long story
short, because it
took about seven years, I ended
up throwing everything out.
>> LILOU: How were you making
your decisions, based on what?
Your happiness level?
Your inner peace?
>> KINSLOW: In what
I had done before.
Because what had happened
is I noticed a pattern
that every time I reached
a point of discomfort
and I felt uncomfortable inside,
I wouldn't know what to do,
and I'd stop.
And then I'd start
doing something new.
That's what we all do.
But it was the stopping
that felt good.
It wasn't the doing.
The doing was the excitement,
because you had hope
because something in the
future was coming, right?
But then when you got
there, it was never as great
as you thought.
Where was this enlightenment?
Where was this inner
peace 24 hours a day?
Where were the angels?
And by the way, during my trek
over those many years, decades,
I did learn to hang out with
the angels and disincarnate
masters, all of
those flashy things.
But they're just
different realms.
They're just different
levels of life.
And they don't really give
you the inner essence,
the fullness that
we humans need.
We have to be able to converse
with any level of life fully.
But that means also
being one with ourself.
You hear that all the time,
but what does that mean?
>> LILOU: Because we're
incarnated beings, right?
We are human beings
on Earth, and it
is important to fully descend
here too on the planet
as much as being with
this invisible realm.
>> KINSLOW: Well, it's the angel
that looks down on us and says,
what is this human thing?
They have phlegm and gas
and their stomachs gurgle,
but they're capable
of experiencing
the fullest in creation,
the oneness that's there.
>> LILOU: You think
they say that, actually,
that we're able to
experience the fullness?
Because it seems sometimes,
because we're in this envelope,
we can't.
>> KINSLOW: Don't kid yourself.
It is because of that.
What does an angel
know of suffering?
But now we know what
it's like to suffer.
We know what it is to drag
this body around with us.
And we also know, if
we're lucky-- I don't
want to say lucky,
but if we stop.
I'll develop that in
just a moment-- once we
stop trying to get
somewhere, all that's left
is stillness, which is
peace, which is oneness.
So we're able to experience
both, all, the extremes,
the suffering, the great
suffering, and the fullness
and the joy of life.
And so what we have
now is something
that angels don't have.
They really can't
have that fullness,
that complete fullness.
And so they're guides
in certain ways.
But in other ways, we know more.
So after seven years, actually,
of throwing things out,
what I realized was that every
time I threw something out,
I felt momentarily at peace,
and then I started up again.
What happened was when I turned
61, I was deeply in debt.
I had a job that I
made not even enough
to pay off the
interest on my loans.
I lost the job.
And I was sitting
around and saying,
here I am worried
about money after all
of this, quote, "spiritual
training" over all
of these years.
What's wrong with this?
And so this time I stopped,
and I didn't get started again.
I started just
looking at this fear,
this fear that I had of money.
Fear is the basic
negative emotion.
That's the one that
from all the others
come, jealousy, grief,
greed, all of that.
And I started watching the fear
without trying to get rid of it
or without trying to move
it and manipulate it.
I just watched it, and
it would dissipate.
It disappeared.
>> LILOU: Pretty
quickly too, no?
>> KINSLOW: Yes.
Immediately.
So what happened was
immediately I felt the peace
that I had been
looking-- but now, I
had found intermittently.
But now I had it
any time I wanted.
And, in fact, I
realized that as a kid,
that same joy was there when
I was just left on my own.
And that's what
was happening now.
I really had nowhere to
go and nothing to do.
And instead of trying to
fill that void, I left it.
And I found that it
wasn't a void at all,
that it was filled with
fullness, with this awareness
that unity exists, that
harmony permeates all things,
that there is an order.
And it's not where we're going.
It's where we are that counts.
Now that's a philosophy that
has been reflected in many ways.
But the practice
of it, the practice
of not doing, if you will, even
that traditionally you hear,
oh, well, we're of no mind.
We're going to just
become the observer.
Well, how do you do that?
Well, then you do
this, this, and this.
Well, wait a minute.
You're doing
something to not do.
>> LILOU: And then
we can feel it.
A person that would be
sitting in the position
of the observer, we're not
connected the same way.
I had this situation
recently in an interview.
It was detached and not present.
>> KINSLOW: That's
a great perception.
And that really takes us
to the core of my teaching
is that separation is the first
step, but it's not the end.
The separation gives
us safety, but it
doesn't give us the fullness.
It separates us.
Any time you have two,
you can't have unity,
unless you see the unity
in all the differences.
So what happens is when we
do Quantum Entrainment, which
is the name, the scary
scientific name for a process
that is very natural
and human and already
there-- anyone
viewing this already
has everything they need to
experience this unity right
away.
Now what I found was that
after everything had dissolved
and I didn't try to
make anything come back,
everything came back but with
the support of the fullness
there automatically
without effort.
So all of these tryings going
on and all of that trying,
it was just eliminated.
And it was done on perception.
Now this is very interesting.
We work our way
through various ways
to enlightenment or to
experience inner peace,
if you will, just to feel
whole, like a whole human being.
There are five traditional
ways to do that.
One is through the
heart, devotion.
intellect, advaita.
One is through
twisting and bending,
physical, breathing, yoga.
And one is mechanical.
And mechanical would be
doing mantras and yantras
and that sort of
thing, just repetition.
The fifth one is perception,
and that's what I stumbled on.
Perception is there already.
You have everything built
into you as a human being.
So when you perceive
something, automatically
your body and your mind react.
Here's what I mean.
If you were to perceive,
to see, let's say,
a dog in this street
out here being hit,
immediately there's
a contraction
in the body, the
diaphragm, the blood gases
change, and cardiac output,
and all of that, boom.
And to go along with that
are the negative thoughts,
the stress.
Now that happened
automatically, didn't it,
as soon as you
perceive something?
Now think about
watching a sunset.
You watch that beautiful
sunset, and all of a sudden
the body is relaxed and
the mind is at peace.
And that's a perception.
You didn't have to say, OK, now
I'm going to imagine I'm here.
>> LILOU: It's like it happens
to us, and we're part of it.
>> KINSLOW: Yeah.
It really, in essence, can't
happen to us, because it is us.
That's what we recognize,
that nothing is outside of us.
When we have two-- now
in the "Bhagavad Gita,"
it says fear is born of duality.
What does that mean exactly?
Well, fear comes when
there are two things.
Because if you think
that there's me
and then there's something else,
you have to right away say,
is that friend or foe?
Do I try to assimilate
it and make it help me?
Or do I push it away
so it can't hurt me?
But when you see it as
yourself-- and I don't
mean understand it, but when
you perceive it as yourself--
the fear goes away.
>> LILOU: That still
seems like a concept.
It seems like something still
out there when we think of it.
It's very special to
be connected as one,
to really see and know that.
>> KINSLOW: It's not special.
It's uncommon.
But it is the most
normal and natural state.
And anybody who experiences
it will tell you that.
It was the most
mundane experience.
I picked up a rock, and
I saw the whole universe
in that rock.
And looking back
at it is separate.
How can you pick up a rock
that's separate from you?
Where's the universe in it?
And the mind gets
involved, you know?
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> KINSLOW: But it's not
that kind of thing at all.
It is simple
perception of unity,
of the oneness that's there.
It's not hard.
It doesn't take years
of arduous study.
>> LILOU: It doesn't
happen to us,
like those special
moments don't choose us,
when we look at a stone.
Because how about having
that experience in a conflict
or in a situation?
That's really when we want it.
And we seem to feel
it, and it's going.
It's off-- it goes and--
>> KINSLOW: Here's the thing.
If you try to hold onto
it, you're creating a goal.
You're creating a
situation where I'm here,
and I want to get there.
Where I am is not good enough.
And so when I get
here, I'll be happy.
It never works.
OK?
Where you are, if you are
upset, that's what you are.
There's nowhere to go.
That's what you are.
Enjoy it.
My mother died just recently.
I was very close to her,
and I had a great deal
of sadness and at the same time
a great deal of joy at this--
I can't even explain it,
just this great universality.
>>LILOU: Like ecstasy, nearly.
>> KINSLOW: Mm hmm.
Yeah.
The two were together.
I was sad-- when I get
angry, it's the same thing.
There's a part of me
that says, look at this.
It's just going on and
there's anger there
and I'm not supposed
to like that.
Well, that's a judgment.
And so the judgment says,
oh, yeah, look at me.
I'm judging.
At first, there's
that separation,
and then there's the
realization that the separation
is two, the witnessing.
And probably you've had
that experience and maybe
some of the viewers,
that when you're
angry in the middle of it you're
saying, boy, I'm really angry,
or, oh, I shouldn't
have said that.
That was stupid.
But that's that separation.
You kind of step outside.
Now you don't have
to embrace it.
You perceive the unity in both.
That's the difference.
Again, this is so easily taught.
For instance, clearing
the mind of thought.
We're told by so many traditions
that it takes years of practice
to clear the mind of thought.
You can do it in seconds,
absolutely seconds,
because nothing is the
foundation for everything
else, what I call
pure awareness.
If you take your hands
and you stretch them out
and you look at one
hand and then you
look at the other hand then
you say, what was in my mind
from the time I was looking
at one hand to the other,
you have to say
nothing was there.
Nothing was there in that.
But did I go into a coma?
Did I disappear?
Is something wrong?
No.
You are still there.
Your awareness was still active.
There was just nothing
to be aware of.
Clear the mind of thoughts.
Now when we teach people to
experience this inner essence,
this clarity within them, it's
done in a matter of seconds.
The thing is here
it's a technique that
eliminates itself
as a technique.
Otherwise, you get
wrapped up in the doing.
>> LILOU: That's one of the
questions I had preparing this
interview.
I said, why then making
it into a technique?
And also, do all
healers or teachers
need to create a
process out of it?
Does it need to
be a step-by-step?
Is this why--
>> KINSLOW: It does because,
to begin with, to hook someone.
For instance, I call Quantum
Entrainment a healing technique
to the general public,
because in seconds to minutes
we create healing of arthritis
and emotional concerns and pets
and all sorts of things.
The reality is it is
not a healing technique.
It's a technique to
experience this inner essence.
Now I'm going to give it a name.
What we call it in
QE is Eufeeling.
>> LILOU: Which is the name of
one of your many, many books,
huh?
>> KINSLOW: Yes, that's right.
Eufeeling is-- you
know we have our heart,
and the heart is open.
It's the thing that allows
us to experience life,
I don't want to say from
an emotional but more
from a devotional way.
Eufeeling is the
heart of the heart.
It's the stillness
within the heart.
And that is just
as easy to perceive
as looking at an apple
in the palm of your hand.
It's just that simple
once you know how.
The technique actually
tricks the mind.
Because we are so used to
going step A, B, C, D, and then
that's it.
So I've made it into a
three-step technique.
In essence, what we do
is the first two steps,
say, OK, you do this step,
then you do this step,
and then all of a sudden the
third step takes them away,
so there are no steps left.
And immediately you're there.
Then you don't have to
do the technique anymore
once you find it.
>> LILOU: When we speak quantum,
we think of also, let's say--
I think immediately when you say
that of being within that heart
right there and being in
that presence ourselves.
Like if our...
if our perception or our way...
like, we could be
anywhere we want, really,
even within the body.
>> KINSLOW: I'm not quite sure.
>> LILOU: We put our
attention right there,
like if we were in the heart,
and then naturally there is
this peace that happens.
>> KINSLOW: Well,
you can do that.
But see, now you've
got a technique
that, oh, if I go to
the heart I feel peace.
But if I go to the
shoulder, what do I feel?
Peace is there too.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> KINSLOW: Eufeeling is
everywhere all the time.
And so you should be able to
perceive it in your shoulder.
You should be able to perceive
it in a stone, an apple, OK?
And in fact, it's that simple.
And we do a basic
workshop before we
break for lunch
people are creating
pretty incredible healing
events in perfect strangers,
just before we break for lunch.
It's that natural to the
human being to do this.
The problem is with most
of us, 98% percent or more
in this world, is that we're
outward-oriented and/or even
inward-oriented when we
should be neither or both.
There's a quote in "Isha
Upanishad" that says,
those people who are attached
to the material world,
they're damned.
They'll never get
to enlightenment.
They'll never be at peace.
It says, those people who are
attached to the spiritual world
are doubly damned.
It's harder for them
to experience peace,
because they're so
attached to this inner.
I'm the right.
Oh, I'm suffering
because, oh, I'm
going through lifetime
and all of this stuff.
They have this construct
that they're stuck on.
And so what we do is we
just wash away all of that,
and we just turn
our awareness-- I
said, from a dog being hit
in the street to a sunset.
We turn our awareness
to Eufeeling.
It's just that easy.
Let me show you how
hard it is to do QE.
Think about a tree.
Then think about
a person you know.
You see?
How hard was it for you to shift
from the tree to the person?
It was effortless.
It's just that effortless.
It's just that natural.
Once you know where Eufeeling
is, you just shift to it.
So I'm doing it now.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
So tell us more.
How do you do that?
>> KINSLOW: [LAUGHS]
By not doing.
By not trying.
Here, if you want to
be completely still,
which is one of the attributes
of the attributeless Eufeeling,
if you want to be completely
still, what do you do?
You can't do anything.
You have to stop
doing to be still.
So we talk about peace, oh,
yeah, I'm peaceful, yeah.
Well, there's relative
levels of peace,
and then there's
universal peace.
We're talking about unbounded
universal peace here,
not, oh, I'm more
relaxed than when
I'm driving the car when
I'm laying on the couch
or when I'm doing my meditation.
You see?
>> LILOU: You're speaking on
this boundless, unlimited,
beautiful-- some people call it
source or love energy or force
life.
But that flows through us.
>> KINSLOW: Yes.
>> LILOU: And we're it.
>> KINSLOW: And we
have to be careful.
Because if you ask what
the soul is, for instance,
or if you ask what
vital energy is,
you ask 10 different people, you
get 10 different definitions.
So I'm always real careful
about defining these things.
You can't define what
has no boundaries,
so it's indefinable
to begin with.
So it's really ridiculous
for me to talk about it,
but here we are.
Here's a good analogy
to give you an idea.
When we did the little look
at your hands thing where
you look at one and you
find a gap in between,
that pure awareness there, when
I teach this-- and by the way,
you can learn this just by
reading one of my books.
It's so natural that you don't
have to go to a workshop.
You can just read the book.
And they're translated into
so many different languages.
>> LILOU: What has been the
bestseller of all of them?
>> KINSLOW: Well, the bestseller
is what we call "The Secret
of Instant Healing."
In Germany, where
it kicked off, it
was called "Quantum Healing."
>> LILOU: Because it kicked off
really well in Germany, huh?
>> KINSLOW: Yes, yes.
When we published
the book in Germany,
"Quantum Healing," there was
only one book in their Amazon
dot Germany, there
was only one book
with the word quantum in it.
Now there are hundreds,
and it was all
based on the success
of this one book.
Germany is a unique country.
They have the ability
to be very flexible
and think in the abstract,
yet they're very orderly.
And this is the coming
together of the two worlds.
In Japan, it's the other way.
They're very industrial,
and yet they're
very used to being open to
the unbounded, to no mind.
And so QE just fits right into
that philosophy very well.
In fact, every
country we've been in,
they have their own
unique orientation.
But that's because this
perception is not Frank's.
It is simply that
I discovered a way
to cut through all of
the years of training
to simply experience
what is your essence.
>> LILOU: Because it's pretty
cool to go from chiropractic--
and I interview so many
former chiropractors.
This is so common, it
seems, for chiropractors
to go into this healing,
whatever the technique is.
So tell us about this shift.
You talked about it, that you
made this shift, but shall
we say more the shift that we
can all make in the process?
>> KINSLOW: Well, yeah.
The shift, of
course, is learning
QE, Quantum Entrainment.
And that just
packages it for you.
And it says, OK, now we're
going to do something.
And then you wait to see
what's going to be done,
and nothing happens.
And then you say, oh, I'm there.
That's it.
Now do you mean how
I made that shift?
Basically, I threw
everything out.
>> LILOU: So we
can learn from you.
>> KINSLOW: Yeah.
I went through
basically 40 years
of trying and failing,
trying to get hold of it.
And finally, when I said,
well, I'm done trying,
it was peaceful.
I said, well, wait a minute.
Maybe this is it.
Now I've heard that before.
But then it was
always how to not try,
which is doing something,
and it never works.
So all of the techniques, if
they don't eliminate themselves
as a technique very
quickly within seconds,
then you're into the doing.
So many people will
experience this exalted state,
but they'll say, oh, I didn't
do it right, or I liked it,
but how do I do it again?
How do I make it stronger?
How do I make it last longer?
That's not the point.
It's always there.
And it doesn't matter
whether it's overwhelming you
and you're rolling on
the ground in ecstasy
or you just have this beautiful,
simple little fullness there.
One is as good as the other.
It's the mind that gets in
there and says, no, I want more,
I want more.
That's also beautiful
in its essence,
as long as you're not
caught up in that.
So the technique doesn't say,
OK, let's stop doing this
or let's start doing that.
It just says, pay attention.
And this is how
you pay attention.
You perceive.
You don't get your
intellect involved.
emotions involved.
You don't have to
breathe a certain way.
You simply perceive
in a certain way
from the level of Eufeeling.
Now that stop
thinking exercise, we
could call that pure awareness.
Now if you have a prism and you
shine a white light through it,
it breaks up into colors,
orange, indigo, violet, yellow,
red, blue, green.
When you have pure awareness
and it hits the prism,
the prism is Eufeeling.
Creation takes place.
And the first thing
is peace, joy, love.
So when we perceive
Eufeeling, we
are perceiving the
foundation of creation.
And that's where we come from.
We are first this unbounded--
Eufeeling is unique
in all of creation.
It is the only thing that is
unbounded, but undifferentiated
and has boundaries.
It's both.
And so when we go
to Eufeeling, when
we allow our perception
to lay on Eufeeling,
then we have this
seat, this seat
where we can watch
creation take place.
For instance, when we
have somebody come to us
and they're in some pain
and we say, OK, we'll do QE,
we're not doing
something to that person.
We're becoming simply
full of joy, full of love.
That's what heals.
The heart is fully open.
Immediately it opens when we
become aware of Eufeeling.
That's what heals.
We're not doing
something to them.
We're just inviting them
to enjoy what we enjoy.
And they heal all by themselves.
>> LILOU: So it seems
both, like self-healing,
doing it to ourselves, but
it's also teaching practitioner
to give that kind
of healing modality.
>> KINSLOW: Well, we teach the
participants of the workshops,
for instance, how to
experience Eufeeling.
What happens after
that is up to them.
If they want to come
in close proximity--
for instance, if you had a
stiff neck and we were to do QE,
I'd experience Eufeeling.
Done.
I don't do anything to you.
But because you're there and
because your body already
knows how to heal,
it just needs what?
Well, the universal
healer is rest.
The principle is the deeper the
rest, the deeper the healing.
Now this is an
interesting thing.
The deepest rest that we
can experience in activity
is awareness of Eufeeling.
In 1970, Dr. Robert
Keith Wallace
published a paper that
showed us that awareness
of pure awareness
elicits a deeper
rest than even deep
sleep, certainly
dreaming and activity.
So that allows us
then to, in activity,
be very deeply rested.
That means we're healing.
And when something
comes in, it goes out.
Now that doesn't mean
that we don't get sick.
That doesn't mean that
we don't get angry.
It doesn't mean that life
doesn't have its ups and downs.
That's the beauty of life.
It's when you fight that, when
you say, I want to stay up,
you're on the ocean.
You can't stay on top
of the wave, right?
That's life.
And so this perception
of Eufeeling
allows us to throw out
an anchor to the depths
so that we can enjoy
it but we're not
thrown all over the
ocean by the waves.
>> LILOU: It's hard to grasp
when we're listening to it.
I like in my interviews to
really get to the core of it
so we can really
feel it already.
Because when we feel something--
and we can start to feel it.
I started to feel it when
you talked about the prism.
I think it's getting
closer to the Eufeeling
that you're describing,
but I'm not quite
getting all the details.
>> KINSLOW: Well, that's because
the more abstract something is,
the less definite it
is, by definition.
OK?
This is completely abstract,
so you can't define it.
The mind says-- and
this is the problem.
>> LILOU: You know
how to explain it.
>> KINSLOW: Well,
I can explain it.
But what we're doing is
communicating in what?
Boundaries, language.
And something that has
boundaries cannot reflect
the unbounded.
You see a tree, but is that
the creator of the tree?
It's the creation, but
it's not the full--
So the mind says-- and you
have a good sharp mind,
one that wants to get in
there and look at everything.
When you have that, to
experience Eufeeling
that just goes away.
Now it's a process, as I said.
It's a three-step
process, very simple
and immediately effective.
But trying to
understand something
that has no boundaries
is trying to pick up air.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
>> KINSLOW: But
intuitively, you know it.
Intuitively, you were
there as a child.
And from time to time, maybe
you're doing a practice,
you're doing some
meditation, oh my gosh,
the bliss, the joy, I feel
one with the universe.
Then you say, oh, it was the
meditation that did that.
Wrong.
It was your perception.
You finally stopped
trying at one point.
And that's when many
meditations start
working or become successful
is when you forget them
and your mind just
goes into this neutral.
>> LILOU: Or when
a painter paints.
Or when an interviewer that
loves interviewing interviews,
there's this moment
of pure bliss.
>> KINSLOW: Yeah.
And they're in what
is called the flow.
There was a book, and
I can't pronounce this
fellow's-- Csikszentmihalyi.
I'm sorry.
I blew that.
But the author wrote
the book "Flow,"
and he talked about
this state inactivity.
Now this is what we
call QE awareness,
and that simply is
becoming aware of Eufeeling
as we're active.
OK?
We're more familiar
with Maslow's work,
his hierarchy of needs.
And when we fulfill our needs,
at the top of his pyramid
is the self-actualization.
And that self-actualization
is the same thing
as awareness of Eufeeling.
We human beings are
not done evolving.
And we just struggle,
because we think,
oh, I need to make
things better than it is.
But it's not.
It's perfect as it is.
We just need to realize that.
And the philosophy is
not how we realize it.
It's not an emotional thing.
No.
It is a perceptual thing, that
once you perceive perfection,
you're done.
There's nowhere to
go, nothing to do.
George Land, who's
a systems scientist,
developed the
transformation theory,
theory of transformation.
And he says that
every system goes
through three phases of growth.
There's the survival phase,
there's the expansion phase,
and then there's the phase--
he didn't call it this.
He called it something else,
but I call it the love of phase.
Now you have to know
that I define love
in a scientific way.
Love is when two
systems come together
to create greater harmony.
So two atoms can come
together to create a molecule.
Two people come together
to create a relationship.
Two businesses come
together, or what have you.
Any time two things
come together
for greater harmony,
that's love.
Now look at us as a species.
We started out as
hunter-gatherers.
That was a survival
phase for us.
And all we did, we
had this small group
that we interacted with
to help us survive.
Then we got it.
We got this idea that, well,
we could cultivate crops.
We could domesticate animals.
We had a language, we
developed it, and here we are.
Now we're through this phase.
And by the way, each
phase has its own laws.
And you can't use the laws
for one phase for another.
They won't work.
So what's happening is
that we are, as a species,
in this phase two,
this expansion phase.
But it's now time
for us to move on
to the love phase, the coming
together for a greater harmony.
And we're still stuck
in the second phase,
the expansion phase, where we're
in competition, where we're
driven by more, grow,
grow, grow, grow.
I need more and more.
Well, you can only grow
so far, and then you die.
You can't keep growing.
You have to learn now how to
interact with the environment.
So what QE does is it allows
us to make the transition that
is natural for a human being
now to make it for a species
or for a relationship.
For instance, if we
had a relationship,
or, let's say, any two
people get together,
early in their relationship,
they're in a survival mode.
Well, that's a great
time for a couple,
if it's a romantic
relationship, for instance.
They get together,
and they have fun.
And they just love
being with each other,
and time drags when they're
not together, right?
And he just loves the way
she's just-- oh, when she eats,
she makes a little smacking--
[MAKES SMACKING SOUND].
Oh, that's so cute.
And she says, oh, he
takes care of himself,
and that manly smell.
Well, when they get
into the second phase
where they're growing
and expanding,
now they cohabitate,
they start a family,
they get a house and a
dog, the usual things.
But then there comes a
time in that relationship
when it kind of gets stale.
Here in the United States,
our lives just separate.
We're working so hard to
realize the American Dream
that we lose ourselves.
At that point, we say,
I want to go back and do
what we used to do, because
we're falling apart.
And so they go
dancing like they used
to and all these other
things, but it doesn't work.
Because not-- going
back won't work.
Staying where you
are won't work.
They now have to move
into the real love phase.
See?
Now at this time, this
is when they might say,
well-- they either go
outside their relationship
for another relationship, or
they just say, this is it.
I'll just live the
rest of my life
in this sort of cohabitation
kind of a thing.
And things irritate each other.
Now he says about her, god,
when she eats, I can't stand it.
[MAKES SMACKING SOUND]
all the time.
Ew.
And she says about
him, he's so vain.
He's always looking at
himself in a mirror.
And I wish he would just take
a shower every now and then,
that smell.
In the beginning,
he says about her,
oh, god I could just eat her up.
In the second phase
when they're bumping up
against-- he says to himself,
god, I wish I had eaten her up.
>> LILOU: Yeah.
Dr. Bruce Lipton, too,
that you probably know,
wrote about this
honeymoon effect.
>> KINSLOW: Yes.
Yes.
Well, that's phase one
moving to phase two.
Now we move there
pretty naturally,
although we have
a lot of failure.
You might date many people
before you settle down
with a partner.
But it's the phase three
that we're focusing on.
And phase one to
phase two, transition
is very simple, very easy,
and it's done seamlessly.
But phase two to phase three
takes quite a bit more,
and we won't go into it here.
But it requires that you come
together on the level of unity.
You have to become fully human.
You have to express
what you are.
And if you don't know what
that is, you're doomed.
So you must know what
your foundation is,
what the basis is, and
then work from there.
And the other
person must too, so
that you have two
people coming together
from the level of
Eufeeling or, as Maslow
would say, from
self-actualized functioning.
He calls those
people transcenders.
And they're out there.
He says there's 0.5% to
2% of the population-- 2%
is pretty conservative--
that naturally are living
this aware of Eufeeling or in
QE awareness that we call it.
But my effort here is to
wake people up to the idea
that there's nowhere to
go and nothing to do.
You just settle down,
stop, pay attention.
Now you can come out and do.
And your life is
fine just like it is.
The things that need to
change will, automatically.
And the things
that don't, you'll
appreciate them
for what they are.
And so what we have now is you
falling in love with yourself.
The outer self
and the inner self
come together for
greater harmony.
And now you as a
whole human being
can interact with others
on the same level.
Then you come together,
and you're not competing.
You're not trying to steal.
You're not trying to manipulate.
If you have a
conversation with someone
else who's self-actualized, what
happens is two people-- here,
most communication, two
people come together in,
let's say, phase two or in this
common consciousness 98% of us
are in.
They come together
and they're always
looking to take something.
Well, I'd like a
compliment, or I
want to tell them about my
weekend so that they'll know
and they'll feel better,
so on and so forth.
So if two people come together
with the idea of taking,
they walk away unfulfilled.
OK?
And we see this
in the workshops.
As soon as you learn
QE, the atmosphere,
the environment shifts.
It becomes softer.
It becomes more alive.
It becomes more like you.
Because what's happening
is you experience Eufeeling
and you start recognizing
it, perceiving it
in the objects around you.
And so what actually
happens is you
start falling in love
with your environment.
You start moving into
phase three functioning.
>> LILOU: And then we're not in
front of people that have all
those expectations and
those strings attached.
Most of us no longer want this.
It feels so good to be part of
something that is unconditional
and that we're really just there
showing up because we want to.
>> KINSLOW: Yes.
And that's unconditional.
That's unbounded
within the boundaries.
That's the only way
you can have it.
So we keep thinking-- and here's
the problem-- that where we are
is not good enough.
So if I just do
this, I'll be there.
And when I'm there,
I'll be happy.
I mentioned that earlier.
But what's actually happening
is we're creating a goal,
and a goal means two.
It means where you are and where
you want to be, in your mind.
So now as soon as you
have two, we already
know that you can't have one.
So where you are
is where you are.
You have to admit that.
Is there any better place to be?
Well, the mind may say yes,
but you are where you are.
You might as well
enjoy the fullness
of where you are, not from an
intellectual or emotional point
of view but simply a perception.
And I'm telling you, it's
so simple and so easy.
I'm just amazed at this.
And it's not like I had some
great training or anything.
I just sort of stumbled on this.
And when it happened
to me, I said,
I wonder if I can teach this.
And so I taught
it, and it worked.
And I said, well, I wonder
if I can write it down.
I wrote it down, people
read it, and it worked.
I said, great.
We can put it in books.
It's not limited to
me just teaching it.
Then it got translated
first into German,
and now it's around the world.
And we've only been doing
this, I think, five years now.
>> LILOU: You call it
"The Kinslow System."
That's your last book.
>> KINSLOW: "The
Kinslow System."
That's my last name, Kinslow.
The Kinslow System involves
the Quantum Entrainment,
but there are a number
of techniques in there--
and I've just perceived a more
refined level of Eufeeling
called Pure Eufeeling--
and then how to apply that,
for instance, if you get angry.
If you're angry and you're
being swept along by this anger,
what do you do?
Count to 10 or say,
I shouldn't be angry?
None of that works.
I've developed a technique
to take that anger away,
to allow it to dissipate very,
very quickly, very quickly
and allow us to reestablish
awareness of Eufeeling.
But it's done not by
getting rid of anger.
That's not the goal.
Because as soon as you have a
goal of getting rid of anger,
you now have a goal, don't you?
And you have two things.
Where I am is angry, and where
I want to be is not right?
So what this does,
it's the coin reality.
OK?
Most of us say that positive
is what we want and negative
is what we don't want.
It's not really
conducive to inner peace.
Because if you have a coin,
let's say a gold coin,
and it's clean,
flat, and you stamp
on one side a P for positive
and on the other side an N
for negative.
OK?
Now you know, well, OK, that's
positive, that's negative.
So I don't want the negative.
I want the positive.
This is what the mind says.
So now we have a goal, right?
But the beautiful thing is
that positive and negative
are imprints of the
gold in the coin.
So my question is, if there's
a positive and a negative,
what are they?
What is positive and negative?
What is the essence of them?
What is the coin made of?
You have two sides of a coin.
What is the coin?
And the mind says,
oh, I have no idea.
Where do I start?
How do I know what the coin is?
The answer is the coin is
indefinable but perceivable
through Eufeeling.
So Eufeeling is the coin,
and from Eufeeling comes
everything negative
and positive.
When you perceive that, when
you say life is the coin
and it has negative
and positive,
when your perception is on
the coin not one or the other,
now the whole coin has value.
It's not, I just want heads.
I just want P. You see?
That is the new technique or, I
should say, the new expression
of this technique that
I'm writing about now
and I'll be teaching very soon.
>> LILOU: And how are
you going to call that?
That's the pure Eufeeling, no?
>> KINSLOW: No.
That's a realization
of pure Eufeeling.
The way I do that,
there's a book
called "Eufeeling" that I
wrote that introduces you
to pure Eufeeling.
Now it's how to perceive
it in everyday life,
to see the unity, so
not just to perceive
it inside but now
perceive it in everything.
So as I look at you and I see
the palm trees and the sky,
all of that is one thing,
and I'm perceiving that now.
That's what I'm going to teach.
>> LILOU: Well, thank
you so much, Frank,
for this delicious interview.
>> KINSLOW: Oh, this
has been so much fun.
I really appreciate it.
>> LILOU: And the climate and
the weather couldn't be any
better.
>> KINSLOW: No, no.
I really love the
excuse of being here.
Now I live on the
other side of the state
where it's nice and quiet.
>> LILOU: Sarasota, huh?
>> KINSLOW: Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, right on the bay.
So I'm familiar
with this, but this
is a nice change of pace,
these crazy Miamians.
>> LILOU: Beautiful.
And my delicious co-creators,
if you've watched this video
and enjoyed it, please
share it and put
some of the comments underneath
the video, and then let's
get the conversation rolling.
Thank you so much.
>> KINSLOW: Absolutely.
My pleasure.
>> LILOU: Big, big
kisses to all of you.
Bye bye.